# Bird Addition

The next feature I was told to implement was the bird. This turns out to be a big feature that will take some time. I was told to add a bird to the game that flies through the sky and the player can possess the bird. Once the player has possesed the bird we can see from the birds perspective but we can not control the bird. To start of I added a bird to the game and gave that bird a nav mesh agent and made it fly through the sky randomly between 3 points. This part was pretty straightforward because I did not have to touch any old code I was just able to create a new script. The challenge came with possesing the bird which is a mechanic thats already in the game with the wolf and the deer. This meant I would need to figure out who the player posses the deer and apply this to the bird. As mentioned earlier this porject is a bit of a mess so it took ages just finding the methods that apply and then making them apply to the bird aswell. At this point I am able to right click on the bird and start the possesing animation but the second the game tries to give me control of the bird everything breaks. I will now need to work on the game not breaking when I try to possess the bird.

After working on this feature for a few weeks now I feel like I am starting to make headway. At this point I am able to possess the bird, get a nice birdview camera and then go back to my player. This is basically how this feature is supposed to work but getting there was a mission and a lot of different approaches were taken. Most approaches failed because of the nav mesh agent and the FSM-Controller script being an absolut mess. I managed early on to posess the bird correctly but the birds movement itself was all over the place. For some reason the bird always flipped on its head and then moved around irrationally. Aidon then suggested to have a new Finite state script that inherits from the old one but does not actually do much. This is when I started to have some success. I had to implement a lot of checks in the possesion procedure to differentiate between possing the bird or possesing anything else. This lead to some code duplication which may need to be cleaned up later. I now need to make the bird fly between three randomish points and make sure the bird flys always facing forwards because at the moment the bird can move sideways or backwards which looks bad. Once I have implemented that the feature works on a basic level. I could then advance this feature by adding several birds and whatever bird you posses you get a different birdview of the world. Also, I was told to add a "warp" feature when possesing the bird. Not quite sure what is meant by this but will ask lecture for more specifics once I get there.
